SKIN CANCER CLASSIFICATION with DEEP LEARNING
==============================

Building a machine learning a model that predicts malignant skin cancer vs. benign with given picture image

Introduction
------------
Skin Cancer is a very common diseases. According to the PRS, a Health Organization, “1 in 5 Americans will develop skin cancer in lifetime.” The annual cost of treating skin cancers in the U.S. is estimated at $8.1 billion: about $4.8 billion for nonmelanoma skin cancers and $3.3 billion for melanoma according to the Skin Cancer Foundation.

Early recognition of the cancer, especially skin cancer, through simple diagnosis will not only save time and money but also save many lives.

Skin cancer is the cancer you can see. Unlike cancers that develop inside the body, skin cancers form on the outside and are usually visible. That’s why skin exams, both at home and with a dermatologist, are especially vital. This model is aim to assist people to diagnosis their skin at home.

Data Source:

<div style="width:800px;height:280px;border:2px solid #001;"> 

    The ISIC 2020 Challenge Dataset https://doi.org/10.34970/2020-ds01 (c) by ISDIS, 2020
    
    Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial 4.0 International License.

    The dataset was generated by the International Skin Imaging Collaboration (ISIC) and images are from the following sources: Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Medical University of Vienna, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Queensland, and the University of Athens Medical School.

    You should have received a copy of the license along with this work.

    If not, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/legalcode.txt.
</div>


Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final data
    │   └── raw            <- The original data
    │
    ├── docs               <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. 
    │                         (1) Data Set Up
    │                         (2) Image Data Processing
    │                         (3) Neural Network Model
    │                         (4) CNN Models
    │                         (5) Pre-trained Models
    │                         (6) Model Comparison and Conclusion
    │                         (7) Final Model
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis Model Graphs and Image Samples
    │   └── figures        <- Generated data visuals
    │
    └── tox.ini            <- tox file with settings for running tox; see tox.readthedocs.io


Conclusion
--------
Final model (Convolutional Neural Network with ADASYN technique)exhibited 95.9 % accuracy.
If the model predicts the Malignant, the subject will have 95% chance to have the actual disease. If the model predicts the Benign, the subject will have 96% chance to have the benign.
The model predicted 78.5% of all Malignants and predicted 99.1% of all Benigns.

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
